---
title: 'Mechanical keyboards'
date: 2024-04-30
permalink: /posts/2024/05/mechanical_keyboards/
excerpt: 'Thinking a lot about something I use a lot.'
---

I like mechanical keyboards.

The first mechanical keyboard I bought was a full-size Ducky One with Cherry MX Brown switches in June of 2017. I was about to start my Master's research and I wanted a nice keyboard to use as a bit of added motivation (call it, preemptive retail therapy). Both my work and my hobbies tend to have me using a computer, so I spend a lot of time with keyboards. As soon as I started using the Ducky, the mechanical keyboard proposition made immediate sense. It felt like a "normal" keyboard, only of a higher quality.

<!--
The MX Brown is a tactile switch, meaning the stem has a slight bump around the activation point of the switch. In theory, this helps the user feel when to stop pressing the key to avoid "bottoming-out", where you run out of travel and bump against the board itself, causing stress to the fingers. But the MX Brown has very light tactility, and it was barely noticeable to me. I tend to be a heavy-fingered typist, so I bought some O-rings from Amazon to install onto the stem of the keycap and provide a softer landing for my fingers. 
-->

It wasn't until January of 2021, three and a half years later, that I bought my second mechanical keyboard: a Mistel Baroccco MD770 with Cherry MX Clear switches. The MX Clear switches are noticeably heavier than the MX Browns, and I really liked the additional resistance. The MD770 retains the staggered key layout of the Ducky, but on a compressed 75% layout. More than that, the board was physically split into two halves, so I could space out my hands and straighten my shoulders -- a much more natural typing position. As soon as I started using a split keyboard, I was hooked. Normal keyboards started to feel cramped; it reminded me of how it felt to use a laptop or tablet keyboard.

<!-- Then, I really caught the bug (fortunately, not of the COVID variety). -->

The next month, I bought some Zeal Zilent v2 78g switches. Made by a boutique brand, these were night-and-day in terms of build quality compared to Cherry. Very little pre-travel, with a lot of tactility. These would be the switches I'd use in my ultimate keyboard -- enthusiasts call this "end-game", and it's a bit of a running joke because no-one is ever finished upgrading.

While I researched my ultimate keyboard, I lubricated the Zeal switches; a common practice amongst those same enthusiasts and something fortunately well-documented on Youtube and Reddit. I disassembled each switch, lubricated the spring and its stem, and reassembled. It's a bit of a painstaking task, but it's absolutely worth it. Put on a stream or podcast, and you can get into a nice rhythm; then before you know it, you're done.

<!--
In March, I had built a numpad that used an open-source layout I'd found online, with the Zeal switches and some keycaps from KBDfans.
-->

In April, my keyboard arrived: a [Sofle Keyboard](https://github.com/josefadamcik/SofleKeyboard) built by [Ergomech Store](https://ergomech.store/) in Vietnam and shipped to me in the US. I loved it. The columnar key layout was a game-changer and I haven't gone back to a staggered layout since. I could even customise the keymap to my liking with multiple layers via the QMK firmware.

But I couldn't resist. 

By November 2021, I had built another keyboard, a [Lily58 Pro](https://github.com/kata0510/Lily58) with Kailh Navy "Thick Click" Choc switches (made in collaboration with Novelkeys) and black blank keycaps. This time, I did all the soldering work done myself -- not worth the effort, I must say! Choc switches are very low profile, and these particular choc switches are both heavy and have a significant mechanical click, on both the up- and down-stroke. I worked from home, so no worry here about bothering coworkers with a noisy keyboard. The low profile form factor reduced the bend in (and strain on) my wrists in comparison to the MX-switched Sofle keyboard I had prior to the Lily58.

After a year of researching and experimenting, I was finally content with my keyboard. 

That is, until one day in September 2023, when I stumbled across the [ZSA Voyager](https://www.zsa.io/voyager). I knew of ZSA for making a pre-built version of the legendary Ergodox keyboard commerically available, and I had been intrigued by a couple of their newer keyboards over the years. The Voyager was (and still is) expensive, but it looked to be a professionally-built version of the keyboard I was using at the time, albeit with a slightly different layout. By this point, my other keyboards were showing some wear and the long-term effects of my subpar soldering skills, so I bought it.

After two years, the clicky switches were starting to grate, so I bought some [Kailh Dark Yellow Choc linear switches](https://chosfox.com/products/kailh-chocs?variant=42514647744706) from Chosfox to replace them. After breaking in for about a month then lubricating, the Dark Yellow switches are very smooth, with no rattle from the spring hitting the plastic stem of the switch (as they have when stock). 

Finally, I added some MBK Legend keycaps from a ["group buy"](https://www.reddit.com/r/MechanicalKeyboards/comments/kxom8h/mbk_legend_group_buy_is_live/) I joined about 12 months prior. Group-buy purchases of keycaps with a long lead-time (for manufacturing and shipment) are very common in the world of mechanical keyboards - the price of a niche interest I suppose!

Six months later, I love my ZSA Voyager. It's the best keyboard I've ever used, by far. I can't think of anything I'd change about it.

Lucky, because then I'd probably upgrade again.

